

SarSim II Upgrade
-----------------


The objective is to upgrade SarSim II from a purely monostatic simulation
system to a bistatic/multistatic simulation system.


In order to make this upgrade as efficient as possible, the following
implementation issues will be observed:

1. The script file, which contains all the radar/target/simulation parameters,
   will not be changed.  Therefore the modules which write and read the
   script file will also not be changed.

2. The graphical user interface will also not be changed.  This also implies
   that there is no change in the way that radars, targets or platforms are
   described.



In order to comply with the above two provisions, SarSim II would *always*
need to operate in a multistatic mode.  This has the following implications:

1. As soon as more than one radar is defined, the output of every radar will
   be detected by every other radar.  Note that the simulator operates at
   baseband, and it is the baseband signals from all other radars that
   are coherently summed to produce the sampled output of a particular radar.

2. As before, only the output of *one* radar, chosen by the user, is saved
   to disk.  However, this output is now a coherent combination of all
   defined radars.

3. If a radar is to act as a receiver only, its output power could be set
   to zero.

4. If a radar is to act as a transmitter only, it should not be chosen
   when writing the simulation output to disk.



The simulator currently works as follows:

Starting at time=0s, the return of transmitted pulse #1 is calculated
over the selected range interval.
Then, at time=1xPRI, the return of transmitted pulse #2 is calculated
over the same selected range interval.
The user can select an azimuth range, which will extend the number
of transmitted pulses into the future, at intervals equal to the PRI,
or into the past, at intervals equal to the PRI.

The important thing to realise is that SarSim II is inherently a
*pulsed* radar system simulator.  Let us imagine two radars, one
transmitter and one receiver, situated at the same position.  For
the receiver to "see" the echoes due to the transmitter, it has to
have the same PRF.  One cannot just oberserve one long range line,
during which one should receive multiple echoes!

There is another problem, related to the above.  Let us again imagine
one transmitter and one receiver, but this time the transmitter is
very far away from the receiver.  The separation distance is such,
that the echoe of pulse #1 would only arrive at the receiver during
the second sampling interval.  However, due to the way SarSim II is
written, this ambiguous return would not be seen!

This ambiguity problem could possibly have a solution: Let's say
we want to be able to resolve the first ambiguity, and that the
PRI is 3 seconds, and the sampling window extends from 1-2 seconds.
Thus we would be sampling from 1-2 seconds, and again at 4-5 seconds
for the second pulse.  Now, we could let the sampling window extend
from 1-5 seconds, which means we would be sampling from 1-5 seconds
and again at 4-8 seconds.  During post-processing, we could coherently
add the return from 4-5 seconds during the first sampling period to
the return from 4-5 seconds of the second sampling period.

The above solution has (at least) one problem: If the received signal
contains noise, we would be adding noise twice!  The solution to this
problem would be to add the noise during post-processing, and let
SarSim II calculate noise-free samples.



Can a receiver receive the direct illumination of a transmitter?

No.  SarSim II only calculates the return off point targets.
This problem might be solved by placing a point target with a
suitable RCS at exactly the same position as the transmitter.
Initial tests have shown that SarSim II has no inherent
problems (such as divide-by-zero) with a point target being
situated at the same position as a radar.



Can we simulate a receiver that is receiving continuously?

It is conceivable that the sampling window in range extends from zero
to the PRI, which would mean that there should be a seamless transition
from pulse to pulse.  However, it must be investigated how "seamless"
this transition is, or if there are any "glitches".



Can we simulate a transmitter that is transmitting continuously?

It is conceivable that the duty cycle could be set to 100%, or,
conversely, that the pulse length is equal to the PRI.  Again,
it must be investigated how "seamless" the transition from pulse
to pulse is, or if there are any "glitches", perhaps due to lack 
of coherency.  Many CW transmitters use some kind of frequency
modulation.  If it is simply linear FM with only an up-ramp in
frequency, this could, perhaps, be modelled with a simple chirp
waveform.  If it is more complicated, like a triangular 
frequency ramp, then, perhaps, a saved waveform can be uploaded.



Can different radars have different centre frequencies?

Yes, they could.  Since only the baseband signals are added
together, it is inherently assumed that the receiver can
receive and demodulate any centre frequency.  This is,
ofcourse, not always possible in practice.



Can different radars have different PRFs?

No.  At least not yet.  All the SarSim II calculations are done
at instances equal to the PRI, and it is believed that to
overcome this limitation would result in a major re-write of
the simulator.



Is it possible to simulate a simple bistatic TV scenario?

It seems possible.
An omni-directional TV transmitter could transmit a user-defined 
signal with a certain PRF.  Furthermore, an omni-directional 
point target would be placed at the TV transmitter in order to 
provide the necessary "reflection" for the receiver(s).
The aircraft target could be placed on a moving platform with
a user-defined trajectory.
The receiver (either omnidirectional or directional) would have 
to have the same PRF as the transmitter, and transmit an arbitrary 
waveform with zero power.  Note that there might be interference
between the direct transmission of the transmitter and the
reflected echoe from the target.  One could use a directional
receiver to try and minimise the TV signal.  If the receiver
is supposed to be shielded from the transmitter, one can easily
remove the point target placed at the transmitter.
One can also point two receivers at the target, but their
respective outputs would have to be saved in two separate files.
A third receiver could be pointed at the transmitter, in order
to obtain a sample of the transmitted waveform.  For this
scenario, the point target at the transmitter has to be present.

In practice, the signals from the two receivers might be mixed
together at some IF in order to obtain direction of arrival.
In SarSim II, all signals are at baseband, although this should
not be too big a problem.
Furthermore, in practice the receiver looking straight at the
transmitter might provide a phase-locked local oscillator in
order to measure the Doppler shift in the other receiver(s).
In SarSim II, one has to contend with zero-drift transmitters,
and assume that any Doppler in the received signal is due to
target motion.
Regarding Doppler, SarSim II takes "snapshots" of the scene
in order to calculate the received echoe.  During every 
"snapshot", the target is stationary!  This means that there
will not be any Doppler shift in the received echoe due to
target motion.  There will only be a phase shift from pulse
to pulse, because of target motion.  This might be a problem
for such a simulation!





Conclusions

SarSim II was not designed to be multistatic, and therefore
there are quite a few issues which would need to be looked
at very carefully.

Ideally, a multistatic radar simulator would be completely 
designed *before* writing the software.  However, because
a multistatic SarSim II would be extremely useful, it is
believed that the additional investment made into SarSim II
would not be in vain.







